---
layout: post
title:  "DSD: Vehicle mounted Face Recognition System using Raspberry Pi"
date:   2013-09-12
excerpt: "The final projectwork of the course Digital System Design (DSD)"
project: true
comments: false
---

## Description
CSE 461: Digital System Design

The final project of the coursework of DSD.
#Vehicle mounted Face Recognition System using Raspberry Pi
Bangladesh is a country that is prone to natural disasters, in which thousands go missing or get trapped in remote areas. It becomes very difficult to locate or communicate with these people using standard tools and techniques. The Rover Face Recognition System (RCFS) is a cheap mobile face recognition system which can be used to locate people in the aftermath of a disaster in remote areas. RCFS is a vehicle mounted webcam system which is controlled remotely by means of WiFi or Bluetooth or gsm connectivity. The webcam is mounted on a servo motor which gives it about a 200 degrees angle of vision. The webcam, servo motor and vehicle are all connected to a Raspberry Pi computer, which is also mounted on the vehicle. The programs for controlling the webcam and servo motor are pre-installed into the computer. This study evaluates the construction and development of the RCFS and also the abilities of the system. The results obtained from testing the RCFS and conclusions drawn from the results are presented in the study. Finally, the paper will also propose future modifications to the system to increase its applications in various other fields

>Required Components: Raspberry Pi, Webcam, Servo motor, Toy car as vehicle
