---
layout: post
title:  "Compiler Design"
date:   2016-05-09
excerpt: "Compiler Design"
comments: false
---

## Theory Contents
* Compiler Basics
* Lexical Analysis
* Syntax Analysis
* Semantic Analysis
* Runtime Environments
* Code Generation
* Code Optimization

## Practical work

### Symbol Table

In this assignment, your job is to program a simple lexical analyzer that will build a symbol table from given stream of chars. You will need to read a file named "input.txt" to collect all chars. For simplicity, input file will be a C program without headers and methods. Then you will identify all the numerical values, identifiers, keywords, math operators, logical operators and others [distinct]. See the example for more details. You can assume that, there will be a space after each comma. But, removal of space will add bonus point.

>Sample input:

int a, b, c;
float d, e;
a = b = 5;
c = 6;
if ( a > b)
{
	c = a - b;
	e = d - 2.0;
}
else
{
	d = e + 6.0;
	b = a + c;
}


>Output:

Keywords: int, float, if, else
Identifiers: a, b, c, d, e
Math Operators: +, -, =
Logical Operators: >
Numerical Values: 5, 6, 2.0, 6.0
Others: , ; ( ) { }


### Evaluate Mathematical Expression

In this assignment, you will implement how to evaluate a mathematical expression. The program will ask the user to input a value (say n). Then user will input n lines of input each of which contains an identifier and its corresponding value. Then program will ask the user again to input a value (say m). Then user will input m lines of expressions. Your job is to calculate the final value for each of the given expression using first n lines of input. If you can't evaluate any expression from given numbers of identifiers then output 'Compilation Error'. Allowed mathematical operators are +(add), -(subtract), x(multiply), /(divide).

>Sample Input:

4
g = 2
p = 3
t = 1
w = 2
3
g + p x t - w x p
t - g + t - w
e + t x t - m

>Output:

-1
-2
Compilation Error


### Regular Expression

In this assignment, you will work on regular expression. For simplicity, we will assume that there is a fixed set of regular expressions. We will not consider out of these. But you must not use any built-in method or package in your implementation. If you need any method, you will write that.In Regular Expression (RE), '*' means occurrence of zero of more characters, '+' indicates happening of one or more characters, '?'  means only once or not at all occurrence, '[ ]' indicates happening of inclusive characters, '^' indicates that next characters will not be used in the pattern, '[a-d]{3}' indicates that valid string will be exactly of  length 3 inclusively using a, b, c, d. The following table contains a fixed set of RE that will be used in our assignment.

User will be asked first to input an integer value n followed by n lines of regular expressions. Then user will be asked to input another integer value m followed by m lines of text string. Your job is to say 'YES' with index of RE if the text string is valid according to any of given regular expressions. Otherwise, say 'NO' with zero index. I repeat, you must not use any built-in regular expression method or package.But you can take help from Cloud.


>Sample Input:

2
ab*c*d
a*b(cd)+e?f
3
acccd
abbbbbcccc
bcdcdef

>Output:

YES, 1
NO, 0
YES, 2

### Jflex
